---
layout: spaces-item
title: i-Matériel.Lab | Paris
category: spaces
imageurl: https://s3.amazonaws.com/images.m2i.stamen.com/20140114/toner_2zFufPIq9To.png
contact:
  name: Sasha Quester-Séméon
  email: sacha@imarginal.com
  website: http://imateriel.eu
  address: 41 rue Jussieu, 75005, Paris, France
  telephone: +33 9 50 78 96 13
---

i-Matériel.Lab is the user driven innovation platform dedicated to Cultural Heritage and Tourism, specialized in mobile products and services (Smartphones, touch screen Tablets and Smart Objects).

#### Description

Our specialization gives us a good relevance in New Media and mobile studies and experiments.

The researchers, and digital specialists from our members (i-Marginal / CultureClic, Institute for Research and Innovation, Centre Pompidou, Cinémathèque française, Issy Media…), are already used to study the public needs in the fields of eTourism, Digital Cities, E-Participation, Smart spaces, Future media and content delivery.

We do research, testing, innovation & tech monitoring, as followed:

* Participate to answer Calls for proposals in France and Europe.
* Improve the knowledge in the fields of culture and new media mediation abilities and theirdevelopments.
* Perfect practices and develop nomadic tools adapted to these sectors.* Study and favor contribution devices for all practices of professionals, as amateurs (stakes in sociability).
* Experiment innovation of mobility within the framework of patrimonial discovery, tooptimize conception and chances of success on concerned market, in pre-commercialphases or of launch.
* Favor immaterial economy, the carrier of coopetitives strategies and new nearness.
* Improve and finalize know-how, tools and marketable techniques.
* Contribute to the promotion of cultural citizenship: a sense of responsibility for heritage and culture at a European level, and to facilitate public access to culture, particularly for youngsters.

#### References and Track Record

Typical results and Impacts (examples)…

Launched in April 2011, the lab held a first meeting-workshop-debate day in Paris at IRI, Centre Pompidou and the French National Library, about innovative devices and use in cultural institutions. Our Lab expect to be part of a very active network about live testing, especially in our predilection fields, culture, education, tourism, mobility, as the Lab has been created on the behalf of its first partner, i-Marginal, creator of CultureClic, augmented culture.
