---
category: apps
layout: "apps-item"
published: true
title: TuoMuseo / YourMuseum
featured: true
permalink: "apps/TuoMuseo"
imageurl: 
  - "/img/apps/TuoMuseo.jpg"
tags: 
  - API Implementation
secondarytags:
  - tourism
  - Hack4Pisa
links: 
  - "http://www.tuomuseo.it/"
contact: 
  email: f.viola@digitalfun.it
---
TuoMuseo was one of the winning entries in the [Hack4Pisa](http://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/hack4pisa-registration-12152387117) event in October 2014. 

The project combines Europeana content, pulled in through the API,  with Wikimedia, museum and user generated content to automatically create seo friendly pages about heritage points of interests and museum objects. The aim is to be a starting point for making the heritage experience participatory, engaging and social.

In their own words:

TuoMuseo.it / YourMuseum.it is a Smart Tourism & Museum cross platform (mobile/desktop) app available in different languages. An interactive system, which guides the visitor from online discovery and planning phase through on-site experiences and post visit personal storytelling. The digitised points of interest and exhibits are brought together into a deep layer of gamification, allowing cities and museums managers to guide and analyze visitor flow in real time. Missions, quizzes, badges, points, rankings, awards, and a newsfeed encourage positive tourist behavior, driving them to discover places in a way never seen before.
The visitor becomes co-creator of the experience, selecting targets, sharing emotions, creating content accessible to everyone in a deep emotional way. For the first time, the on-site and online experience meet each other bringing new life to our amazing heritage.

### Key Features:

*For City Visitors*

- Discover thousands of point of interests and museum arts and plan your visit online
- Explore the city in a fun new way through hundreds of quest and challenges
- Unlock rewards: free parking, museum ticket discount, a selfie with the mayor, etc
- Become the city hero climbing the Leaderboard
- Share the experience creating stories, uploading photos and describing art

*For City managers*

- A flexible CMS to manage every aspect of the platform
- Connect the city's needs with visitor behavior
- Create quests to achieve specific results over 2 days in the city
- A complete real time set of data analytics to better understand visitor flow
- An engagement platform to be emotionally connected with the tourist
